README.md, before:

# reregexp

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/reregexp.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/reregexp)&nbsp;&nbsp;[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/suchjs/reregexp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/suchjs/reregexp)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/suchjs/reregexp/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/suchjs/reregexp?branch=master)

Generate a matched string with a given regular expression, it's useful if you want to mock some strings from a regexp rule. It strictly abide by the standard javascript regex rule, but you still need pay attentions with the [Special cases](#special-cases).

## Installation

```bash
# npm
npm install --save reregexp
# or yarn
yarn add reregexp
```

## Usage

```javascript
const ReRegExp = require('reregexp').default;

// You can use either a regex literal 
// or a RegExp string
// if you need use regex rules the browser not supported yet
// such as named group, you need choose a RegExp string 
// for the first constructor parameter.   

// Example 1:  use group reference
const r1 = new ReRegExp(/([a-z0-9]{3})_\1/);
r1.build(); // => 'a2z_a2z' '13d_13d'

// Example 2:  use named group
const r2 = new ReRegExp(/(?<named>\w{1,2})_\1_\k<named>/);
r2.build(); // => 'b5_b5_b5' '9_9_9'

// Example 3: use named group and with `namedGroupConf` config 
// it will use the string in the config insteadof the string that will generated by the named group
// of course, it will trigger an error if the string in config not match the rule of named group. 
const r3 = new ReRegExp('/(a)\\1(?<named>b)\\k<named>(?<override>\\w+)/', {
  namedGroupConf: {
    override: ['cc', 'dd'],
  },
});
r3.build(); // => "aabbcc" "aabbdd"

// Example 4: use a character set
const r4 = new ReRegExp(/[^\w\W]+/);
r4.build(); // will throw error, because the [^\w\W] will match nothing.

// Example 5: also a character set with negative operator
const r5 = new ReRegExp(/[^a-zA-Z0-9_\W]/);
r5.build(); // will throw error, this is the same as [^\w\W]

// Example 6: with the `i` flag, ignore the case.
const r6 = new ReRegExp(/[a-z]{3}/i);
r6.build(); // => 'bZD' 'Poe'

// Example 7: with the `u` flag, e.g. make some chinese characters.
const r7 = new ReRegExp('/[\\u{4e00}-\\u{9fcc}]{5,10}/u');
r7.build(); // => '偤豄酌菵呑', '孜垟与醽奚衜踆猠' 

// Example 8: set a global `maxRepeat` when use quantifier such as '*' and '+'.
ReRegExp.maxRepeat = 10;
const r8 = new ReRegExp(/a*/);
r8.build(); // => 'aaaaaaa', 'a' will repeated at most 10 times.

// Example 9: use a `maxRepeat` in constructor config, it will override `maxRepeat` of the global.
const r9 = new ReRegExp(/a*/, {
  maxRepeat: 20,
}); 
r9.build(); // => 'aaaaaaaaaaaaaa', 'a' will repeated at most 20 times

// Examples 10: use a `extractSetAverage` config for character sets.
const r10 = new ReRegExp(/[\Wa-z]/, {
  // \W will extract as all the characters match \W, a-z now doesn't have the same chance as \W 
  extractSetAverage: true, 
});

// Examples 11: use a `capture` config if cared about the capture data
const r11 = new ReRegExp(/(aa?)b(?<named>\w)/), {
  capture: true, // if you cared about the group capture data, set the `capture` config true
});
r11.build(); // => 'abc'
console.log(r11.$1); // => 'a'
console.log(r11.$2); // => 'c'
console.log(r11.groups); // => {named: 'c'}
```

## Config

```typescript
// The meaning of the config fields can seen in the examples.
{
 maxRepeat?: number;
 namedGroupConf?: {
   [index: string]: string[]|boolean;
 };
 extractSetAverage?: boolean;
 capture?: boolean;
}
```

## Supported flags

- `i` ignore case, `/[a-z]/i` is same as `/[a-zA-Z]/`

- `u` unicode flag

- `s` dot all flag

the flags `g` `m` `y` will ignore.

## Methods

`.build()`

build a string that match the regexp.

`.info()`

get a regexp parsed queues, flags, lastRule after remove named captures.

```javascript
{
  rule: '',
  context: '',
  flags: [],
  lastRule: '',
  queues: [],
}
```

## Build precautions,do not use any regexp anchors.

1. `^` `$` the start,end anchors will be ignored.
   
2. `(?=)` `(?!)` `(?<=)` `(?<!)` the regexp lookhead,lookbehind will throw an error when run `build()`.

3. `\b` `\B` will be ignored.

## Special cases

1. `/\1(o)/` the capture group `\1` will match null, the `build()` will just output `o`, and `/^\1(o)$/.test('o') === true`

2. `/(o)\1\2/` the capture group `\2` will treated as code point of unicode. so the `build()` will output `oo\u0002`. `/^(o)\1\2$/.test('oo\u0002') === true`

3. `/(o\1)/` the capture group `\1` will match null, `build()` will output `o`, `/^(o\1)$/.test('o') === true`

4. `/[]/` empty character class, the `build()` method will throw an error, because no character will match it.

5. `/[^]/` negative empty character class, the `build()` method will output any character.

6. `/[^\w\W]/` for the negative charsets, if all the characters are eliminated, the `build()` will throw an error. the same such as `/[^a-zA-Z0-9_\W]/`、`/[^\s\S]/`...


## Questions & Bugs?

Welcome to report to us with [issue](https://github.com/suchjs/reregexp/issues) if you meet any question or bug. 

## License

[MIT License](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs: add goals in readme

README.md, after:

# reregexp

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/reregexp.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/reregexp)&nbsp;&nbsp;[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/suchjs/reregexp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/suchjs/reregexp)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/suchjs/reregexp/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/suchjs/reregexp?branch=master)

Generate a matched string with a given regular expression, it's useful if you want to mock some strings from a regexp rule. It strictly abide by the standard javascript regex rule, but you still need pay attentions with the [Special cases](#special-cases).

## Goals

- Support named capture group, and set a configed string to override which will generated by the group.

- Support `u` flag, so you can use unicode ranges.

- Allow you get the capture group values.
## Installation

```bash
# npm
npm install --save reregexp
# or yarn
yarn add reregexp
```

## Usage

```javascript
const ReRegExp = require('reregexp').default;

// You can use either a regex literal 
// or a RegExp string
// if you need use regex rules the browser not supported yet
// such as named group, you need choose a RegExp string 
// for the first constructor parameter.   

// Example 1:  use group reference
const r1 = new ReRegExp(/([a-z0-9]{3})_\1/);
r1.build(); // => 'a2z_a2z' '13d_13d'

// Example 2:  use named group
const r2 = new ReRegExp(/(?<named>\w{1,2})_\1_\k<named>/);
r2.build(); // => 'b5_b5_b5' '9_9_9'

// Example 3: use named group and with `namedGroupConf` config 
// it will use the string in the config insteadof the string that will generated by the named group
// of course, it will trigger an error if the string in config not match the rule of named group. 
const r3 = new ReRegExp('/(a)\\1(?<named>b)\\k<named>(?<override>\\w+)/', {
  namedGroupConf: {
    override: ['cc', 'dd'],
  },
});
r3.build(); // => "aabbcc" "aabbdd"

// Example 4: use a character set
const r4 = new ReRegExp(/[^\w\W]+/);
r4.build(); // will throw error, because the [^\w\W] will match nothing.

// Example 5: also a character set with negative operator
const r5 = new ReRegExp(/[^a-zA-Z0-9_\W]/);
r5.build(); // will throw error, this is the same as [^\w\W]

// Example 6: with the `i` flag, ignore the case.
const r6 = new ReRegExp(/[a-z]{3}/i);
r6.build(); // => 'bZD' 'Poe'

// Example 7: with the `u` flag, e.g. make some chinese characters.
const r7 = new ReRegExp('/[\\u{4e00}-\\u{9fcc}]{5,10}/u');
r7.build(); // => '偤豄酌菵呑', '孜垟与醽奚衜踆猠' 

// Example 8: set a global `maxRepeat` when use quantifier such as '*' and '+'.
ReRegExp.maxRepeat = 10;
const r8 = new ReRegExp(/a*/);
r8.build(); // => 'aaaaaaa', 'a' will repeated at most 10 times.

// Example 9: use a `maxRepeat` in constructor config, it will override `maxRepeat` of the global.
const r9 = new ReRegExp(/a*/, {
  maxRepeat: 20,
}); 
r9.build(); // => 'aaaaaaaaaaaaaa', 'a' will repeated at most 20 times

// Examples 10: use a `extractSetAverage` config for character sets.
const r10 = new ReRegExp(/[\Wa-z]/, {
  // \W will extract as all the characters match \W, a-z now doesn't have the same chance as \W 
  extractSetAverage: true, 
});

// Examples 11: use a `capture` config if cared about the capture data
const r11 = new ReRegExp(/(aa?)b(?<named>\w)/), {
  capture: true, // if you cared about the group capture data, set the `capture` config true
});
r11.build(); // => 'abc'
console.log(r11.$1); // => 'a'
console.log(r11.$2); // => 'c'
console.log(r11.groups); // => {named: 'c'}
```

## Config

```typescript
// The meaning of the config fields can seen in the examples.
{
 maxRepeat?: number;
 namedGroupConf?: {
   [index: string]: string[]|boolean;
 };
 extractSetAverage?: boolean;
 capture?: boolean;
}
```

## Supported flags

- `i` ignore case, `/[a-z]/i` is same as `/[a-zA-Z]/`

- `u` unicode flag

- `s` dot all flag

the flags `g` `m` `y` will ignore.

## Methods

`.build()`

build a string that match the regexp.

`.info()`

get a regexp parsed queues, flags, lastRule after remove named captures.

```javascript
{
  rule: '',
  context: '',
  flags: [],
  lastRule: '',
  queues: [],
}
```

## Build precautions,do not use any regexp anchors.

1. `^` `$` the start,end anchors will be ignored.
   
2. `(?=)` `(?!)` `(?<=)` `(?<!)` the regexp lookhead,lookbehind will throw an error when run `build()`.

3. `\b` `\B` will be ignored.

## Special cases

1. `/\1(o)/` the capture group `\1` will match null, the `build()` will just output `o`, and `/^\1(o)$/.test('o') === true`

2. `/(o)\1\2/` the capture group `\2` will treated as code point of unicode. so the `build()` will output `oo\u0002`. `/^(o)\1\2$/.test('oo\u0002') === true`

3. `/(o\1)/` the capture group `\1` will match null, `build()` will output `o`, `/^(o\1)$/.test('o') === true`

4. `/[]/` empty character class, the `build()` method will throw an error, because no character will match it.

5. `/[^]/` negative empty character class, the `build()` method will output any character.

6. `/[^\w\W]/` for the negative charsets, if all the characters are eliminated, the `build()` will throw an error. the same such as `/[^a-zA-Z0-9_\W]/`、`/[^\s\S]/`...


## Questions & Bugs?

Welcome to report to us with [issue](https://github.com/suchjs/reregexp/issues) if you meet any question or bug. 

## License

[MIT License](./LICENSE).
